# Change Log

## [Version 2.8.1](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.8.1) (2026-07-07)
- Added ability to pass SARIF results for Flawfinder.
- Added CWE mappings for Spotbugs.
- Minor bug fixes in Flawfinder and Spotbugs parsers.

## [Version 2.8.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.8.0) (2026-07-06)
- Added Flawfinder to the list of supported scanners
- Added Spotbugs + FindSecBugs to the list of supported scanners
- Added an updater executable that checks for and installs new SARP releases
- Fixed bug where if a lock is on the output file, the wait mechanic will result in duplicate output of findings.
- Fixed background coloring in Rule Builder window

## [Version 2.7.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.7.0) (2026-06-30)
- Included support for importing and exporting SARIF format. Note that SARIF files generated by SARP must be re-imported as a SARP input, not SARIF.
- Added option to explicitly set output file format
- Added GUI option to immediately execute an input profile instead of stepping through all input windows.

## [Version 2.6.2](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.6.2) (2026-06-24)
- Fixed bug introduced in 2.6.0 where GUI will crash prior to parsing results.
- Added file extension validation for each scanner input
- Added CLI option to disable progress bar
- Fixed bug in Fortify path preview to improve clarity for error reporting
- Fixed bug in chart generation where 0 parsed findings resulted in a division by zero error
- Fixed finding counts alignment in the CLI table for when finding counts are all 3 digits

## [Version 2.6.1](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.6.1) (2026-06-22)
- ***Release executables have been removed because they contain a critical bug.***
- Reworked Checkmarx parser to always output a Message value for both XML and CSV inputs

## [Version 2.6.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/2.6.0) (2026-06-18)
- ***Release executables have been removed because they contain a critical bug.***
- Added ability to pass inputs via command line, so a JSON file is no longer required. See the [ReadMe](readme.md#command-line-options) for a full list.
- Added more command line options to manage input config files.

## [Version 2.5.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.5.0) (2026-06-16)
- Created a new header for Trace instead of appending it to the Message or Symbol columns. This will include DestPath/DestLine values for certain scanners.
- Added a GUI window to select existing user inputs, if available.
- Updated CLI so that -i input does not overwrite existing inputs files.
- Removed finding total from donut chart if a scanner outputs 0 findings to prevent clutter
- Fixed bug where line number may be omitted in Memory Leak findings from Fortify

## [Version 2.4.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.4.0) (2026-06-04)
- New feature: Added a progress bar to the GUI so SARP doesn't appear to hang, freeze, or quit once parsing begins.
- Fixed bug where an empty preflight ruleset in the GUI will be ignored and still use previously loaded rules.
- Fixed bug where an empty preflight ruleset in the GUI didn't overwrite the rule config file.
- Fixed bug where certain error conditions in some parsers will result in a crash.
- Fixed bug where Checkmarx outputs SrcFileName and Line instead of DestFileName and Line

## [Version 2.3.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.3.0) (2026-05-29)
- New feature: Added finding reports to GUI and CLI. A chart graphic is displayed in the GUI executable but is always saved to the `logs` directory regardless of GUI or CLI.
- Added ability to specify project name and version
- Fixed bug where SRM parser fails to dedupe its own findings against standalone versions

## [Version 2.2.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.2.0) (2026-05-20)
- CLI: Added command line switches to validate `user_inputs.json`, list its contents, and print an example template of a `user_inputs.json` file. Run with `--help` to see options.
- Reorganized config directory into separate directories for CWE mappings, preflight rules, and json schemas.

## [Version 2.1.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.1.0) (2026-05-19)
- New feature: Deduping among findings from the same scanner. If a finding addresses the same issue as another finding from the same scanner, it will be marked as a duplicate and choose the first finding as the canonical (order is determined by order of initial inputs). This feature is toggle-able via GUI or control flag defined in user_inputs.json.
- Removed user interaction when the outfile is locked. Instead of waiting for the user to press "Enter," SARP will keep checking the lock every second until the outfile can be written to.
- Added simple reporting of how many total findings were parsed. More detailed reports are slated for future releases.
- Minor changes to default rules

## [Version 2.0.2](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.0.2) (2026-04-29)
- Identified and fixed a bug where the CLI executable will still hang for user input
- Added more default preflight rules
- Removed "DISCOURAGED" status for CWE-682 category mapping
- Improved SRM parsing of duplicate findings and CWE mappings for SRM-Pylint and SRM-ESLint

## [Version 2.0.1](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.0.1) (2026-04-10)
- Fixed a bug where some scanners will result in failure to output
- Included a json schema for users attempting to create a `user_inputs.json` file
- Added new default rules
- Other minor bug fixes

## [Version 2.0.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v2.0.0) (2026-04-06)
Removed the old override system in favor of a more fully-featured one using rule expressions and extended matching techniques.  
This new system is called the **Preflight** system.

Key features of **Preflight**:
- Allows full control over what fields get overridden and any new values to replace them with
- Enables matching techniques that are more intricate than exact matches: Exact, Contains, StartsWith, EndsWith, Glob, and RegEx.
- Features the ability to chain match patterns into expressions with operators AND, OR, and NOT
- The ability to assign precedence to each rule so ordering will matter.
- The GUI has an editor to easily add, remove, and edit rules.

Examples on how to use Preflight are available in the [ReadMe](readme.md#configure-preflight).

Other notable changes:
- Removed all interactive elements of the CLI executable to enable insertion into automated pipelines. All config must be generated by the GUI executable or manually created and placed into the `config` folder.
- Changed `OWASP Dependency Check` and `NVD CVEs` parsers to set confidence to `To Verify` by default instead of `Confirmed`. This is done to encourage additional research to determine exploit maturity for each CVE.
- Changed header `Mitigation CVSS Vector` to `Environmental Metrics` for clarity
- The old `user_overrides.json` template is ported to a default profile that is toggle-able in the Rule Editor menu
- Added and amended a significant number of rules for the default profile

## [Version 1.3.3](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v1.3.3) (2026-02-24)
- Fixed bug where passing a SARP spreadsheet will cause failed output.

## [Version 1.3.2](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v1.3.2) (2026-01-13)
- Fixed bug where Manual CVEs are not included in GUI list

## [Version 1.3.1](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v1.3.1) (2025-12-16)
- Fixed bug in Coverity parser that would result in a crash or dropped results.

## [Version 1.3.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v1.3.0) (2025-12-11)
- Added feature where SRM findings will be marked DUPLICATE if their standalone version already exists. The ID is also overwritten with the ID of the standalone finding. Note this feature only applies to SRM input formatted in XML.

## [Version 1.2.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v1.2.0) (2025-12-09)
- Changed names of the headers to fit with new STITCH scoring method and improve clarity. Changed default values of `Maturity` and `Mitigation` columns.
- Added support for SARIF input from GNAT SAS. SARIF format contains event trace, so it is recommended to output GNAT SAS findings in SARIF format.
- Added support for JSON input from OWASP Dependency Check.

## [Version 1.1.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v1.1.0) (2025-10-02)
- Added support for Semgrep that accepts JSON or CSV files.
- Added support for Sigasi that accepts JSON input.
- Updated SRM and Checkmarx parsers to accept XML reports, which include more information than CSV reports.
- Moved CWE mapping data to config folder so that it can be pluggable and editable by users.
- Added event trace for CPPCheck results. Trace is appended to Message column if it finds more than one event.
- Added more overrides to user_overrides.json
- Removed support for Fortify CSV results because the CSV results do not contain an adequate level of information.
- Appended subtype to "Type" column when parsing Fortify results.
- Added a Fortify override to `user_overrides.json` to correct CWE for `Often Misused: Authentication` findings.
- Fixed bug where Checkmarx path previews will only access the first file in the target directory to create a preview. If the first file is empty, the path preview will produce an error. Now, the parser will iterate through all files for a valid path instead of stopping at the first one.

## [Version 1.0.1](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v1.0.1) (2025-09-11)
- Added version text to both CLI and GUI components of the software.
- Added another Coverity override to `user_overrides.json` to correct CWE for memory leak findings.

## [Version 1.0.0](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Static-Analysis-Results-Parser/releases/tag/v1.0.0) (2025-08-25)
First official release of the software. See Beta change log below.


## Beta Versions

### Beta v20250818
- Parser now accepts user input in a config file "user_inputs.json."

- To see formatting, run the parser once against valid input and check the config folder.

### Beta v20250814
- Parser now outputs as an Excel workbook by default UNLESS one of the following is true:
    1) The user requests CSV via prompt

    2) The user enters an outfile with a .csv extension

    3) External module "openpyxl" is not installed when running from src
    
- Minor bug fixes and fine-tuning.

### Beta v20250805
- A GUI version has been created. Please note that compatibility testing with legacy versions of python3 has not been performed, so older python3 versions may not be able to run the GUI. If this is the case, you may have to run the executables or update your python version.

- Significantly reworked the parser to be packaged as an executable that can be run without a python interpreter or the script dependencies. As of now, 64-bit executables have been built for Windows 10 and Ubuntu Linux. Support for other platforms can be requested. The source is still provided in case the executables do not work or if a user wants to add a custom feature.

### Beta v20250730
- Implemented de-duping for OWASP DepCheck findings. OWASP has been found to output the same CVE number for multiple .dll's and .exe's. The parser will now mark one CVE number as Confirmed and any rows with the same CVE as Duplicate.

- User overrides for AIO parser, OWASP DepCheck, and Manual CVEs now work.

### Beta v20250717
- User-defined CWE and Confidence overrides. Control flags for those overrides. See Note 2 for details on how to define override rules.

- ESLint parser now skips parser errors and ruleIDs that are null.

- Minor improvements to terminal UI.

### Beta v20250716
- Fixed bugs in input validation for CSVs created from AIO parser.

- Made minor changes in how Fortify messages are parsed.

- Fixed minor bug where the progress bar for Checkmarx did not calculate the total number of CSV rows correctly.

### Beta v20250709
- Added support for parsing AIO output CSVs. It will copy all findings from the input to the output.

### Beta v20250708
- Fixed a bug where a Windows absolute path will cause issues in guided prompts. Use commas to delineate file path and scanner, and use quotation marks to escape commas in file paths.

- Changed the line endings of all files from CRLF to LF for easier use on Linux systems. Limited testing showed that Windows interpreters will accept LF line endings. Note that older Python interpreters on Windows may not function well with LF line endings.

### Beta v20250626
- Fixed a bug where Pylint type and message columns were identical

### Beta v20250610
- Added more CWEs to Vulnerability Mappings that were not covered in Dependency Check output

### Beta v20250606
- Added support for ESLint

- Added support for manually fetched CVEs. It is recommended to use the script [Batch-NVD-CVE](https://github.com/DevinPatel72/Batch-NVD-Query) to generate the csv file.

### Beta v20250519
- Added a switch to turn off CWE vulnerability mappings in the output file. It is on by default.

- Fixed a bug where the coverity event history is not output correctly

### Beta v20250516
- Improved validity checks for file path inputs

### Beta v20250430
- Added support for OWASP Dependency Check

- Fixed bug where Coverity events were dropped from the message column

- Updated CWE 665 from vulnerability mapping "CATEGORY" to "DISCOURAGED"

### Beta v20250224
- Added an "ls" command to quickly view file names when entering scanner input files using guided prompts

### Beta v20250221
- Updated Fortify to significantly reduce long trace messages

### Beta v20250205
- Added two CppCheck message IDs to the list of informational IDs: templateRecursion, checkLevelNormal

### Beta v20250129
- Updated CppCheck parser to print filtered config errors to a CSV instead of the logfile

- Updated Coverity to significantly reduce clutter in the Message column

### Beta v20250124
- Updated Fortify parser to accommodate for certain missing XML tags and other minor fixes. Added new language_resolver module and included more file extensions.

### Beta v20250123
- Beta parser is ready for distribution.
